This will be kind of a weird tasks to do,
but it'll be fun.
What I want you to do is I want
you to create a branch called baz.
I think currently we are on foo.
You can create on whatever you want.
It doesn't matter about
the the baz branch or
branching off of once you create a branch
or I guess I say do it off of trunk.
It really doesn't matter.
But let's just for now, just say create
a branch off of trunk called baz.
Add one commit to baz and
do it in a new file, right?
Don't do it in read me,
do it in a new file.
Switch back to trunk and then delete baz.
And then I want you to bring baz
back to life from just the sha.
And we can discuss how you do that,
so first do the first three, and
then we'll kind of talk more about
this last one, and I'll join you.
I'll go git checkout trunk,
git checkout -bbaz,
echo, bazzy, to baz, git add,
git commit, definitely my best work here,
git checkout trunk,
git branch -Delete baz.
Dang it, I just lost all that work.
And, darn it,
I just lost all my history too.
I could have probably recovered it if I
didn't Ctrl + L but now look at this,
I'm up a river without a paddle, right?
Well, hopefully you don't think that.
I think this is a fun kind
of exercise to go on.
So let's first use Reflog and
let's recover our sha.
So what I'll do is I'll go like this, git
reflog, I know it's in the last couple, so
why not just do a -5 so you don't see
your entire history and look at this,
definitely my best work.
Okay that's the shop.
We have the sha from that commit,
which means what can we do with a sha?
>> Hook it up.
>> Rebuild the whole repo.
>> We can rebuild the entire repo just
from this one little tiny sha, right?
Remember git cat-file -p,
this, look at that.
It's right there.
It's still in Git just because we deleted
the branch did not mean we deleted what
you just changed.
It's in git, the files are in
the computer, as a wise man once told me.
>> So if you delete a baz branch because
there's still that snippet of history in
your local computer, is there any instance
where you can delete the branch using
the good get CLI-d but also delete it from
the source of truth in the .git folder?
>> There might be.
I've never actually tried that so
I have no idea.
My guess is no.
But there's a ton of options, so it also
wouldn't be surprising if you could,
all right?
Yes, there is?
Okay, yeah.
People are saying there is,
but I have no idea.
Never trust the Internet.
Trust the man page.
I bet you it's in there.
All right, problem, with our sweet
knowledge of how git plumbing works,
can you retrieve the contents of the
commit using our super awesome powers to
grab our baz.md?
Can you do that?
You have the sha,
try to get out what was in baz.md,
not from your memory, but from git.
So we can use git cat file -p with that,
I can go into the tree,
git cat-file -p that,
I can see my little baz file right there,
and then I can git cat-file -p,
that thing, and look at that, bazzy.
I recovered it walking the sha's
all the way to the exact file.
So I could take this, and I could cat
that, and I could pipe that into baz.md,
and then I could get status,
and look at that, git diff,
we actually don't have anything in
there because it hasn't been added.
We could add that and
then git diff staged.
And look at that, there's bazzy,
it's a new file right here.
My goodness, I've just recovered it.
And I feel like a hacker, right?
I mean, there is actually
easier ways to do this, but
that was just kind of fun, right?
Peer wizardry, you do this at your job,
you're getting a promotion.
Just right off the bad, Brent, CTO,
Frontend Masters will just hire you
as the new CTO, just doing this.
All right, let's not use the internals.
Is there another way?
I mean, it's great flexing, right?
You should always flex that work when
you can, but maybe you don't have to.
Is there a easier way to do this?
Well, you can always just do the,
unfortunately the,
hair hot, I'll go with git reflog.
And we just have this thing out right here
>> In chat someone
mentioned cherry-pick
>> Right, so
one thing I can do if I really
wanted that change in trunk,
I could git merge just that sha.
I already have the sha, right?
I could just bring it in.
Git still has the state,
boom, look at that.
Baz is now in trunk.
Wow, that was magical, right?
We didn't have to do all
that hacker man stuff.
We just simply needed the sha and
then we can just merge it into trunk.
Now I have baz right there.
It's just right there.
Kind of interesting, right?
You might not have seen that one coming.
So we can do that.
But there is a problem with merge.
What happened if there was a lot
of diverging that happened?
What happen if there was
a bunch of commits in betwixt,
my trunk head and that commit,
what would happen if we merged it?
We'd all that history, right?
Cuz it's gonna try to find what does it do
again, it walks back, it finds the merge
base or the best common ancestor, and then
it replays all of those potentially into
a third branch and then does a merge
commit if the histories have diverged.
So you may not want to do all that,
right, that may be kind of a pain,
maybe you just want that commit and
not everything else.
Well, I don't know if you
know about cherry-pick,
probably have never even heard
the term until this exact moment.
But cherry-pick allows you to take
just one or more commits specifically.
Cherry-pick is fantastic.
I've used this probably as,
one of my 20% commands,
I probably have used this the most.
It's just because anytime I have just that
change, I don't want to merge, I just want
this one diff cherry-pick it in and
it works with remotes, it's fantastic.
As long as you are up to date with your
remote and you have all the changes from
them, you can just cherry-pick a singular
commit into your project if you need to.
It does require your
working tree to be clean.
Remember working tree is just
the state of your project,
your everything that's been tracked by
Git, so no changes to your working tree
and then you can cherry-pick and
no changes to your index either.
Sometimes if you have like index problems
you can it will say no index against
the staging area.
Remember, it's not necessarily
your working tree.
So there you go, so, git cherry-pick,
try it, if you haven't done it, see
if you can cherry-pick the change of baz
into trunk, if you did not merge it in.
Cuz I know some of you aren't
necessarily following, if you didn't,
you can do that, pretty fantastic.
So, all you have to do is of course,
get cherry-pick and the shell, and
it will just merge it right in.
Fantastic.
A really real talk it is like
by far one of the my most used
commands is cherry-pick, absolutely.
Just has saved my bacon more than once,
cuz have you ever had like a change that
has diverged so bad due to something and
then you just git the merge
conflict is just incomprehensible.
And this has happened to me.
And luckily,
you've made some small commits and
you haven't made one big commit.
You're like, I'm just gonna take out
these two things, play them over here and
then try to rebuild the rest of it.
I've been in a situation where there was
such a bad divergence that the only way
forward was to actually just
hand move things over, and
that was with cherry-pick.
It was fantastic, I'm not gonna draw it
out I think everybody understands this
we've talked about it quite a bit.